README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# nossaflex

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/AlbanSagouis/nossaflex/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlbanSagouis/nossaflex/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

The nossaflex package is the entry of the NOSSAFLEX file naming
convention into the R universe to help scientific, professional or
amateur photographers to name their picture files consistently and
informatively.

When taking a picture with an analog camera, data such as aperture,
shutter speed or focal length are not automatically saved the way they
are in a digital camera. Many photographers write down these precious
metadata in a notebook, we want to help them improve their workflow and
data quality.

## What is NOSSAFLEX?

Here is an explanation from the creators:

> It’s as easy as the name – NOSSAFLEX has all of the information in the
> title.
>
> NO = Number SS = Shutter Speed A = Aperture FL = Focal Length EX =
> Exposure

NOSSAFLEX file names looks like this: `NO03_SS250_A8_FL80_EX0.jpg` or
this: `NO34_SS30_A2.8_FL35_EX+1.tiff`!

Learn more on their \[website\]{<https://nossaflex.io/the-system>} or on
their \[Youtube channel\]{<https://www.youtube.com/@NOSSAFLEX>}.

## The package

Here are the two main functions in the package:

- `renaming_nossaflex` batch-renames picture files from uninformative
  `DSC_00345.jpg` to information-rich NOSSAFLEX name based on data
  provided by the user, see {analog} section:
  `NO03_SS250_A8_FL80_EX0.jpg`.
- `editing_exif` batch-saves the metadata of the pictures into the exif
  slots of the scan files (jpg, tiff, etc).

## Analog or an other app

## The workflow

## Installation

You can install the development version of nossaflex from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
# devtools::install_github("AlbanSagouis/nossaflex")
```

## Example

This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(nossaflex)
files <- c("Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001034",
           "Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001035",
           "Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001036")
filenames <- reading_nossaflex(path = "path_to_the_filenames.txt") # provided by the `analog` app
renaming_nossaflex(filenames = filenames, files = files)
```

Additionally you may want to safely save the shots metadata inside the
scan files:

``` r
metadata <- reading_nossaflex(path = "path_to_the_filenames.txt") |>  # provided by the `analog` app
     parsing_nossaflex()
editing_exif(files, metadata)
```

## Related work

The package relies heavily on the great
`exiftoolr`{<https://github.com/JoshOBrien/exiftoolr/>} package by
@JoshOBrien which itself depends on the great
`exiftool`{<https://exiftool.org/>} software by Phil Harvey. Finally,
jExifToolGUI{<https://github.com/hvdwolf/jExifToolGUI>} offers exif
editing and with a Graphical Interface, nice. And for Apple users, the
Frames iPhone and Mac apps allow integrated shot metadata recording and
including the metadata in the exif slots.

Commit message:

renaming nossaflex to APMD
Analog Photography MetaData

README.md, after:

# APMD

<!-- badges: start -->

[![R-CMD-check](https://github.com/AlbanSagouis/APMD/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/AlbanSagouis/APMD/actions/workflows/R-CMD-check.yaml)
<!-- badges: end -->

## Analog Photography MetaData

The APMD package is the entry of the NOSSAFLEX file naming
convention into the R universe to help scientific, professional or
amateur photographers to name their picture files consistently and
informatively.

When taking a picture with an analog camera, data such as aperture,
shutter speed or focal length are not automatically saved the way they
are in a digital camera. Many photographers write down these precious
metadata in a notebook, we want to help them improve their workflow and
data quality.

## What is NOSSAFLEX?

Here is an explanation from the creators:

> It’s as easy as the name – NOSSAFLEX has all of the information in the
> title.
>
> NO = Number SS = Shutter Speed A = Aperture FL = Focal Length EX =
> Exposure

NOSSAFLEX file names looks like this: `NO03_SS250_A8_FL80_EX0.jpg` or
this: `NO34_SS30_A2.8_FL35_EX+1.tiff`!

Learn more on their [website](https://nossaflex.io/the-system) or on
their [Youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@NOSSAFLEX).

## The package

Here are the main functions in the package:

- `renaming_nossaflex` batch-renames picture files from uninformative
  `DSC_00345.jpg` to information-rich NOSSAFLEX name based on data
  provided by the user, see {analog} section:
  `NO03_SS250_A8_FL80_EX0.jpg`.
- `parsing_json` and `parsing_frames` parse data in JSON format as exported by
  the analog&trade; app and Frames&trade; app respectively.
- `editing_exif` batch-saves the metadata of the pictures into the exif
  slots of the scan files (jpg, tiff, etc).

## Analog&trade;, Datafilm&trade;, Frames&trade; or an other app

## The workflow

### Installation

You can install the development version of APMD from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
remotes::install_github("AlbanSagouis/APMD")
```

### Usage
#### Renaming files
This is a basic example which shows you how to solve a common problem:

``` r
library(APMD)
files <- c("Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001034",
           "Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001035",
           "Pictures/2024/01 02 Winter in Berlin/DSC_001036")
filenames <- reading_nossaflex(path = "path_to_the_filenames.txt") # provided by the `analog` app
renaming_nossaflex(filenames = filenames, files = files)
```

#### Saving exif data

Additionally you may want to safely save the shots metadata inside the
scan files:

``` r
metadata <- reading_nossaflex(path = "path_to_the_filenames.txt") |>  # provided by the `analog` app
     parsing_nossaflex()
editing_exif(files, metadata)
```

## Related work

The package relies heavily on the great
`exiftoolr` {<https://github.com/JoshOBrien/exiftoolr/>} package by
@JoshOBrien which itself depends on the great
`exiftool` {<https://exiftool.org/>} software by Phil Harvey. Finally,
jExifToolGUI {<https://github.com/hvdwolf/jExifToolGUI>} offers exif
editing and with a Graphical Interface, nice. And for Apple users, the
Frames&trade; iPhone and Mac apps allow integrated shot metadata recording and
including the metadata in the exif slots with a great GUI.
